# SalinaPlaningMill
Website Build for Salina Planing Mill.

•Site Purpose - The purpose for our site was to make a modern and responsive web design for the company Salina Planing Mill. They were wanting a website that could be accessed on not only desktop computers but also easy to navigate their site from mobile devices such as tablets and smartphones.

•Pages/Topics of pages - We created six different pages including the home page, in addition to these six pages some of our pages have interactive links and pictures which link to various other company websites and project material that has been completed by Salina Planing Mill. We have a Home, Projects, Products & Services, Contact Us, About Us, and Awards page.

•Features - Some of our features include multiple interactive links which lead to other company websites associated with SPM and pictures, which are interactive and lead to other informational pages. We also included a contact us page which includes a couple of interactive informational tables which allow potential customers to enter their personal information which can be emailed to SPM so that they can contact their customers. We also included an about us page which gives a good historical informational background for the company and listed some companies they have professional memberships with.

•Design decisions - Our design decisions were largely credited to a lot of trial and error. Originally, we worked on the structure and had a makeshift color scheme which after careful review decided that it just didn't contrast well and was difficult to read. After hours of looking on various color pallete websites and trying various color combinations, we finally settled with a textured tan background for the page with a grey backdrop and a textured blue header section for the SPM logo. For the text color we decided on a blue and black text color scheme with a hover color of white for good contrast and easy accessibility.

•Problems and challenges encountered - the entire site was coded in Adobe Cold Fusion which neither Nicholas or I knew anything about. In addition to this major setback, we also encountered the pages for the website had been created in photoshop and then split up into individual images throughout the entire page, for each individual page of the entire site. This made it impossible to use much of anything that we had received from the previous web hosting site company. We finally decided to just scrap what little they had and just build the entire site from the ground up using HTML5 and CSS. Finally, an additional problem we ran into was many of the pictures we had to work with for the website were formatted in GIF and the few JPEGS that we did receive were much too small and were close to thumbnail size, this meant if we tried to enlarge any of the images that they would distort and look much to grainy and ended up not really being useable. Eventually, we were able to contact Steve and he gave us a few extra modern pictures that we tried to incorporate into the finishing stages of the website. We also had a lot of problems with our div content wanted to overlap each other. However, we were finally able to solve this by utilizing flexboxes on our pages, which ended up being a great solution for the problem we encountered.

•Knowledge/experience gained - Overall, I learned a great deal about what it was like to sit down with a real company and talk with people / potential customers. It was a very real experience for developing a professional skillset, which I really feel will help me once I graduate and get a job in the real world. I learned quite a bit about CSS and just how capable it is, and its ability to really shape your website effortlessly once you finally decide on the overall design scheme. I really appreciate the great support that we received from all the faculty to include Professor Harding, Mertz, and Oetken. I really feel we would have wasted a lot more time if we would have had to try and figure everything out for ourselves. Finally, I feel more comfortable with HTML and CSS now then I did about two months ago, I really look forward to adding this to my GITHUB repository so that I can reflect on this experience later to reflect just how much I have really learned, thanks again for this unique, challenging, and rewarding experience.
